[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
Psychic medium
Marla Frees with us
today, spending 25 years as
a very successful television
and stage actress
before devoting herself
to her current work
as a psychic medium.
She is a noted author.
Her best selling memoir is
called, "American Psychic--
A Spiritual Journey
from the Heartland
to Hollywood,
Heaven, and Beyond."
With us, Marla Frees
back on "Beyond Belief."
How are you, Marla?
>>MARLA FREES: I'm great,
thank you so much, George.
>>NOORY: We had such
a great response
when you were on with me
a couple of years ago.
Let's do it again.
>>FREES: Let's top it.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>FREES: [LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: How did you get
involved in the psychic realm?
How did that happen for you?
>>FREES: Well you know, it was--
first off, I wasn't
a big believer.
I didn't believe in talking to
the dead, the psychic stuff,
you know.
It was interesting,
because there
are a few things that happened
in my childhood that was really
quite remarkable.
But when you become an adult and
you sort of are living a life,
you know, it's one
of those things
where you're not so sure
you want to step into that.
But I was actually stalked.
>>NOORY: Stalked?
>>FREES: Yes.
>>NOORY: By?
>>FREES: In the mid
'90s, I came in contact
with somebody that was
basically a con artist.
And it was because
of that encounter
that I thought,
oh my God, I don't
know what's happening
here, because I was really
asking for--
I was praying, I was
meditating, asking for help,
and I actually heard a voice.
And it wasn't the
kind of voice that
was guiding me before, you
know, that internal voice.
This was a dead person.
And she was basically
giving me information
about this con artist.
>>NOORY: Did it help you?
>>FREES: Absolutely.
It led me to go to
law enforcement,
we put him in jail.
>>NOORY: Oh my God!
>>FREES: But the
whole point about this
was I ended up working
with law enforcement
and they were working with me.
I'd been picking up crime scene
photos, getting information off
of them, and then in turn,
I turned around and started
working for law enforcement.
>>NOORY: You always had
a-- and I always believed
this-- psychic abilities.
>>FREES: Well
everybody does, yeah.
>>NOORY: But it kicked
in all of a sudden.
>>FREES: Well, yeah.
There was something
that-- there's
an accident with my horse when
I was a child that I heard
a voice, and that was
really, really dramatic,
because it was one
of those dynamics
that I had to pay attention.
And when you have to
pay attention like that,
you start to think,
well, is it God?
Is it Jesus?
What is it?
Is this my angels?
What's happening here.
And basically, with
that particular voice
that came to me-- that woman,
it came out of nowhere,
and I had to pay attention.
And it was when I first started
working with Lyn Buchanan
and training as a
psychic spy, yeah.
>>NOORY: Do you think sometimes
that voice is the inner you?
Or is it something from outside?
>>FREES: Well, I
think that it's both.
I think that our
intuition, which
is our God-given
birthright, is something
that we're tapping into.
This larger consciousness
system that most people
like to call God.
We are attached to that.
You know, I've been
working with scientists,
and they, too, are explaining
exactly what that is.
There's a precognitive
ability that
can be explained
through science,
and I'll be happy
to talk about that.
>>NOORY: Your new book is
out, "American Psychic."
Let's take a look at a
little bit about this.
>>FREES: OK.
It began in the
heartland of America.
My spiritual journey of love,
loss, joy, and forgiveness,
with devastating secrets.
A voice, a presence saved
my life in an accident
with my horse.
I began to trust
that voice of spirit.
But my life changed
with murder, mobsters,
Hollywood heartthrobs,
romance, and mayhem.
Acting became a
lifeline to healing.
But that career was
ripped away and replaced
by my true calling--
psychic awareness.
Visions and messages
from deceased loved ones
are all part of it.
From the heartland to
Hollywood, Heaven and beyond.
>>NOORY: Wow.
Quite a boisterous
career there, huh?
>>FREES: [LAUGHS] I was busy.
>>NOORY: You were.
>>FREES: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Did you like the acting
part of your life and career?
>>FREES: Well yes.
And I think that it
really saved my life.
There was-- I had
trauma in my childhood.
And this was something
that if I could basically
do what my mother needed
and wanted me to do,
I would survive her.
And that was basically getting
into the television set.
>>NOORY: Now when you say
you had trauma as a child,
your family looked fine, you
look like you were raised well.
Were you?
>>FREES: Well yes.
I mean, it was a beautiful,
bucolic existence
in a small town in Pennsylvania,
but there were secrets.
And my father was a
World War II veteran
who came back and
was an alcoholic,
and my mother had some problems.
Severe problems.
Mental illness.
>>NOORY: But you were
able overcome that?
>>FREES: Yes, absolutely.
But it was the
healing of doing that.
It was-- I basically
had to go outside
of myself asking for assistance
on every possible level
to try and survive
what was going on.
>>NOORY: Let's talk
about "American Psychic"
for a moment.
Tell me the theme of the book.
>>FREES: Well, the
theme is literally
how we are guided by a
spiritual consciousness,
that we are all guided
whether we know it or not.
I mean, I believe
that spirit, God,
the larger consciousness system
had my back even when I didn't.
So people go on
the ride with me,
they experience an awakening.
They also experience
the trauma that I had,
which gives them freedom
to talk about their own.
That's one of the
greatest things
that's happened with the book.
>>NOORY: It's a story about you?
>>FREES: Well, yes, it
is the memoir, yeah.
It's the giving other
people an opportunity
to see how I
survived it, and also
how spirits' guidance helped
me with this intuition,
with this knowingness.
It's the whole unfolding
of that happening,
and that's what's happening
to people all over the world.
>>NOORY: Where are you today
with that psychic ability?
>>FREES: I feel that it's the
greatest gift for us to have
this connection to God--
a larger consciousness
system where
we can access information
that gives us information
about our health, saving
us in certain situations,
listening to that
intuition, tuning into it,
and also accessing
deceased loved ones.
I mean, having
that love continue
is what's really
helpful to people.
And the fact that God gives us
this amazing ability, that we
are able to access
deceased loved ones' love
and connection, what's
better than that?
>>NOORY: So you're
convinced this other side,
this other realm is real?
Exists?
>>FREES: Yes.
I believe that--
>>NOORY: But you had doubts.
>>FREES: Oh, I was
highly skeptical.
And you know, here's the
thing about skepticism.
When you have an attitude about
it, when you're judgmental,
when you say, oh,
that's a bunch of crap,
be careful, because it
will just come right around
and you'll be doing it yourself.
It's the most-- it's the people
that are most judgmental that
get the most surprised.
>>NOORY: That's true.
>>FREES: But you have to have
your own personal experience
for this.
Because you can't
convince a skeptic
unless a skeptic has a
dream about their mother
coming in and speaking to them,
or another deceased loved one,
or as you and I
have both had been
warned in a precognitive
way about an accident that
was waiting to happen.
Unless we have our own
personal experiences,
we don't really believe.
>>NOORY: But what is it?
I still can't figure that out.
Because you've talked
about the God relationship,
and it makes it sound like
there's an angelic realm that's
going to help us, and they
tell us things into our mind.
How do we know
that we don't have
a mechanism within our physical
body, some kind of system,
another sense that
kicks in and is
just a very normal intuitive
thing that's part of our body?
How do we know it's not that?
>>FREES: I completely
agree with you.
So here's the thing-- we
all have belief systems.
Most of us come out of a
Judeo-Christian background.
And that's a
wonderful foundation.
I'm not throwing
that out at all.
That's really important.
But I do believe that there
is this consciousness,
this possible
virtual reality where
we can access information that
doesn't come with the dogma.
That doesn't come with the
ideology of people owning God.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>FREES: So I'm-- that's
what I've been interested
in, because I know
that if I can do this,
not having believed in it, that
other people can do it, too.
And I'm in the midst of helping
CEOs and business associates
and bank owners and
corporate people,
people who are left-brain
access this information.
>>NOORY: But it works for
some, but not for everyone.
Why?
>>FREES: Well I'm not so sure.
Meaning-- well, let's
put it this way--
>>NOORY: Not everybody
can access this.
>>FREES: Well, I think
that if you are skeptical,
you will do everything
in your possible--
the possible way that you can.
Any-- you will find evidence
to make somebody wrong.
We live in a
schadenfreude society
where we are looking at
people's pain, right?
Making people wrong.
Being gleeful about
that kind of dynamic.
When in fact, we all have
the ability to access this.
I do believe this.
>>NOORY: When you wrote
"American Psychic,"
what was your goal?
Did you want people
to know about you
and what you went through?
>>FREES: Well, I'm
just an example--
>>NOORY: Or were
you teaching them?
>>FREES: Well I'm--
I'm just an example.
I think that by virtue
of my experience,
I am hopefully teaching them
that there is something more.
There's also healing.
The forgiveness
that is necessary.
The trajectory of
the book, George,
is the forgiveness of
what happened in my life.
And I think it's
crucial when people
are traumatized that they get
assistance, and that's really--
as soon as I started
getting assistance,
that opened up a whole
door of awareness.
That's when all the psychic
stuff and all the awareness
has started pouring in, because
I moved the pain out and away
and healed it.
>>NOORY: What would you say
is the most dramatic aspect
of "American Psychic?"
>>FREES: Well, I think the
dynamic is the trajectory
that we all go on.
Because I'd like to believe
through the experiences
that I have had that
we choose to come here.
And I believe that the
dynamic of choosing my parents
set me up for being
here with you today,
because it really
is the thing that
taught me everything
I needed to learn,
even though it was
tragic in many ways.
The things that I
experienced were
rich, and people-- the
people that read the book
go on that same journey.
They find that same thing
out within themselves
as they read the book.
They get excited and they
want to tell their own story.
>>NOORY: They love telling
the their own stories.
>>FREES: Yes.
>>NOORY: In the little
clip we saw about you,
there was some
reference to the mob.
>>FREES: [LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: What was
that all about?
>>FREES: Yes.
Well actually, that's one of
those very colorful things
that happened in my past.
When I left college, I left
Miami University of Ohio,
I decided to leave.
And I auditioned with an
opera company in Milwaukee.
And I ended up living
in a building owned,
operated, and occupied
by the Milwaukee mob.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>FREES: Mm-hmm.
The Balistrieris.
>>NOORY: And they
got to know you?
>>FREES: Well, the funny
thing was, is I auditioned
for this opera company.
And Joe Balistrieri,
who happened
to be the son of Frank,
the mob boss himself,
>>NOORY: Hey, I'm Frank!
>>FREES: [LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: Right?
>>FREES: Well, Joe loved opera.
And it was really
quite wonderful.
They were really good to me.
It was a time in my life
when I needed support.
Who thought it would come
from a family like that?
>>NOORY: Did you
know who they were?
>>FREES: Well not at first.
But as soon as I found out I
was living in that building, I
kind of--
I had to find out that yeah,
that this is who they were.
So the dynamic of
it was, I was naive,
I didn't see anybody
kissing rings or--
all I had was the "Godfather"
movie to go after.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>FREES: But the
interesting thing
was that my awareness
and my psychic,
you know-- my psychic
awareness kicked in every time
Frank Balistrieri showed up.
The hairs on the back
of my neck stood up.
>>NOORY: Well, your
book that has come out
is doing quite well.
And you're on a tour.
>>FREES: Yes.
>>NOORY: You've been touring.
>>FREES: Yes, I've been
touring all these--
>>NOORY: How long now?
>>FREES: Well, it came out last
June, so I continue the tour.
And when you do a book like
that, what you have to do
is go make money so that
you can go do the tour.
So I've been touring around
and it's been amazing.
>>NOORY: What do people
generally say to you when
they come up to you?
After they've perhaps
read the book?
>>FREES:
>>NOORY: Well, I
think that they are so
moved for their own reasons.
I mean, they see themselves
in this book, George.
That's the whole point.
They see their own trajectory--
>>NOORY: It's their memoir.
>>FREES: Yeah-- it's
their memoir, too.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>FREES: Yeah.
And that's really wonderful.
>>NOORY: What do
people generally
look for when they
think they're psychic?
What do they want?
What are they trying
to do with their life?
>>FREES: Well, I think that
all of us need connection.
Need connection to a source.
I think it's very
important, even
for the science-based people.
Science-based people who want to
ignore the idea of God or they
think they're
beyond that, they're
getting downloads all the time.
They're getting information.
But sometimes ego makes them
think that it's theirs, right?
It's just them, it's
their intelligence
that makes them so smart.
So the dynamic of being
connected, we all need that.
And the psychic
connection that we
make to another consciousness--
my goodness, it makes us feel
as though we're not alone,
as though we're
part of the system,
part of the universal
consciousness,
part of a larger
consciousness system.
>>NOORY: Do you find that some
people have misperceptions
about psychic people?
>>FREES: Oh, yeah.
It's really kind of sad.
I mean, I did, too.
Made fun of them, thought that
people talking to the dead
were crazy, all of it.
I had lots of judgment about
it until it happened to me.
I think the dynamic
is how we reframe it,
because people keep
thinking that it is--
it's not biblical or it's
not Christian or it's--
and oh my goodness, the Bible--
>>NOORY: Or it's demonic.
>>FREES: Yes!
>>NOORY: Some people think that.
>>FREES: Well of
course, because anything
that threatens someone else's
reality is challenging to them.
They like to make it wrong.
But the Bible's
filled with prophecy,
vision, a precognition.
I mean, it's all about that.
So psychic function is
actually science-based.
>>NOORY: Do you find that
when you get into this realm,
it makes you feel better?
>>FREES: Well I do it all
the time, so I love it.
>>NOORY: Constantly?
>>FREES: Yeah, I love it.
I love being able to
give people a way out.
Give them information that
perhaps shifts them in ways
for them to move forward.
I mean, a psychic
did that for me.
It was really funny.
Like last night when
I was having dinner,
the waiter and I were talking
about probable reality, and--
>>NOORY: Who brought that up?
You or him?
>>FREES: Well actually, he
asked me why I was in town,
and I talked about this.
And he said, I'm interested in
personal reality, and I said--
>>NOORY: He was stalking you?
>>NOORY: Yeah-- no.
[LAUGHS] He wasn't stalking me.
But the dynamic of it
was, it reminded me
of seeing Sonia Choquette,
the first psychic
that I ever saw years ago.
When we were both 25 years
old, I went to see her.
And she basically told me
that I was going to Cleveland,
and I ended up
going to Cleveland.
And in Cleveland, I was
working as an actress there,
but I started feeling
interested in metaphysics.
And maybe it was because
Sonia flipped on my switch.
>>NOORY: Maybe.
>>FREES: But I took the
Jane Roberts Seth book,
"The Nature of
Personal Reality,"
out did the Cleveland library--
I did end up paying
them for that book--
but I took that book and I
was like, oh my God, this
is amazing!
To think that a
channeled entity could
come through a woman like
that and give information
that was so profound--
>>NOORY: The right things?
>>FREES: Yes!
Amazing stuff.
>>NOORY: Seth speaks.
>>FREES: Yes, all of that.
So that's what sort of started
me inching my way through this.
And then I was stalked, and
then US military psychic spies.
>>NOORY: How often do you
meet skeptics about this?
>>FREES: Well, curiously
enough, I went back
to my hometown, which
was part of the tour.
And my hometown is
Christian-based, real heartland
of America.
And there's
opposition-- there were
girls in my hometown in my class
that said, oh no, no, no, we
don't want anything
to do with psychic.
We don't have anything
to do with it.
But that's one of the reasons
I use the terminology,
so I could get the
conversation going.
>>NOORY: You've
heard of mediums.
James Von Praagh--
>>FREES: Oh yeah, well, he's
in my book, I trained with him.
>>NOORY: --and Mavis Pitilla.
They got together one day
to talk about medium shows.
>>MAVIS PATILLA:
I think sometimes
with the skeptics,
of course, it's
because they're afraid
to believe in it, yeah.
>>JAMES VAN PRAAGH: Fear-based.
>>PATILLA: You know fear-based
or it's-- they've become
so caught up in the dogma that
they can't step out of that
and explore the other avenues.
And I feel that
it's right for them.
I don't feel that
everybody should believe
in life after death
a medium, I believe
they should follow the truth of
spiritual development leading
to the spirit while
making a contact,
whether it be
subjective or objective.
>>PRAAGH: Mavis,
I agree with that,
but I also think in
my own thing here.
I also think that
for some skeptics,
some believers, that
they are afraid.
I think it is fear-based,
because their whole world,
their whole paradigm has--
their belief system
has been set up
in certain principles or
a certain way of life,
that if they introduced
in this way of life
a spirituality-- a sense
of spirituality, spiritual
principles, they're going
to have to change up
their whole way of thinking,
and they don't want to do that.
>>PATILLA: I'm chuckling, James,
because that happened to me.
I was so much a
Christian-based girl
coming up through Sunday school
and confirmation and things
like that.
But when it started to happen
to me, I just panicked.
I thought something evil or
something bad had got me.
It's taken many years for me to
understand that really, I just
needed to open the
door of the soul
and it would take
me on that pathway.
>>NOORY: Mavis has got
it together, doesn't she?
>>FREES: Yes, she does.
And that's exactly right, that's
exactly what happened to me.
Raised Lutheran, became
a born-again Christian,
went off into the world,
having my own experiences,
and then bam--
this has happened.
Well I talk about James because
we both had the same vision.
I was watching him on TV.
This is when I had an attitude,
when I didn't believe in it,
and I saw him and I go,
oh, that's a bunch of crap.
I get a call from a
girlfriend that says, hey,
I can't meet with
you this weekend.
I'm going to go see
James Van Praagh.
And we had this
conversation I said, oh.
She said, please, go see him.
>>NOORY: Was that here?
>>FREES: It was in Los Angeles.
>>NOORY: And was that about
seven, eight, nine years ago?
>>FREES: Well, it was in 1995.
>>NOORY: OK, that
was before I saw him.
>>FREES: Yes.
It was before his
first book came out.
>>NOORY: I went to
see him at an event,
and he just mesmerized people.
>>FREES: Well, that's just it.
I basically went to see him.
And because I was such--
I had such an attitude
and I thought, OK,
I'm just going to be--
>>NOORY: You wanted him to fail.
>>FREES: Well, I wanted to--
actually, I'm not
that kind of person,
I didn't want him to fail.
I kind of wanted to be an
investigative reporter.
But when I went--
>>NOORY: A skeptical one.
>>FREES: Exactly.
But when I went, I came home and
got down on my hands and knees
and basically prayed and
said, I have no idea what
this psychic stuff is about.
Could you please
help me with this?
Can you tell me what talking
to the dead is, and--
oh, and help me
with the stalker.
And that's exactly
what happened.
I ended up having a dream,
and I told my girlfriend
about the dream
who happened to be
best friends with his
personal assistant,
and I was in James Von
Praagh's house the next day.
>>NOORY: How about that?
>>FREES: And I didn't
leave for three years.
And he's the one that
told me I was a medium.
>>NOORY: You asked for help?
>>FREES: Yes.
>>NOORY: And you go it.
>>FREES: I asked for help.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: You never had
asked for help before.
>>FREES: Well, at that point
around my psychic stuff,
no I hadn't.
I'd asked for help
about my mother.
>>NOORY: So isn't it
interesting that when you ask,
the door opens?
>>FREES: That's right.
And I believe that we are
all capable of doing it.
If we don't-- if we
get past the fear--
and they talked
about it so well.
They just explain the fear,
the fear about being wrong.
We have to be
willing to be wrong.
>>NOORY: As a psychic?
>>FREES: Well, as a
person, as a person.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: And you have
to admit that, too.
>>FREES: I think so.
Once you're able to
admit these problems,
then you can change them.
You can't change anything
you're not being--
you're not willing
to be aware of.
>>NOORY: Where has your
book tour taken you?
>>FREES: Well, I first
started in Chicago.
I go to the places--
I've been to the places that
are significant in the book.
So I was in Chicago, and I met
with my dear friend Jim Corti,
who initially put me on
stage in my first equity
show, who is now the artistic
director of the Paramount
Theatre.
So I did a big group at the
Copley Theater in Illinois,
and then I was also
with Jen Weigel.
Jen Weigel's written
numerous books
about psychics and mediums,
and she has a great--
she has a wonderful program
at the Wilmette Theatre
where she invites
people to speak
and they talk about
their books, and I
had a very interesting
experience there, George.
>>NOORY: What happened?
>>FREES: Well, part of the
thing that I do before I go out
and I work with a large
group is I do a Marla map.
I sit in the back room
and I start to feel,
oh, this person had
thyroid problem,
this person drowned
or had somebody
that died that's drowned,
and I make this map.
And when I get out,
I start to talk
about that and I have
people raise their hand so
that I can go out into
the audience and say--
>>NOORY: There you are.
>>FREES: There you are.
But I was walking between
the two down in the theater,
and all of a sudden, I
didn't know where I was.
I was accessing a deceased
loved one in her kitchen,
and we were talking
about the relationship
that her granddaughter
was having that
was abusive with her husband.
And I swear, I literally
was talking out loud saying,
I've never been here before,
I think I'm on the other side.
>>NOORY: Wow.
Have you left your body?
>>FREES: Well, I
knew that I was--
I could feel myself, and I
knew that I was in the theater,
but I was in that kitchen.
I was so in that kitchen.
>>NOORY: Were you
remote viewing?
>>FREES: I think I bi-located.
The way that we
sometimes do that,
but I'd never experienced
that in a large setting.
I'm usually able to have
enough distance between it,
but I had had a
session with someone
that had used tuning forks
on my brain that afternoon.
So something was happening--
>>NOORY: 82 megahertz
or whatever that is.
>>FREES: Something happened
where I accessed another level.
>>NOORY: Did you
feel disoriented?
>>FREES: Well, I talked my way
through it to pull myself back.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>FREES: Because I could hear
the deceased person talking,
so I wanted to keep
getting that information.
But that is interesting.
I was going into a
database that didn't
feel like my physical
matter reality.
It was amazing.
>>NOORY: When you're
on the tour, what do
people want to know from you?
>>FREES: People come and
they are really more curious
about their own intuition.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>FREES: Which is wonderful.
>>NOORY: That's what
they want to know.
>>FREES: And that's what I'm
trying to help people do.
Helping them access
their own, going
places that I feel really
comfortable about talking
about.
There are few people and
places that I would recommend
to them in a heartbeat so that
they can have more education.
>>NOORY: Have you changed
people's minds and perceptions
about the other side?
About the psychic world?
They come in as skeptics
and they leave as believers?
>>FREES: I think so
on some situations.
But that's not my job.
My job is not to
change anybody, my job
is just to deliver
the information.
>>NOORY: And you do.
>>FREES: And I do.
>>NOORY: And how do you
know you get feedback?
>>FREES: Well--
>>NOORY: Or do you?
>>FREES: Most of the
time I get feedback,
because if I'm discussing
something with someone,
I'm giving them information and
they could sit there and keep
saying no, no, but that would
be ridiculous, if in fact I
was talking to them about
information that was important.
So I'm seeing the fact that
this person went and had
some dental work done,
they had an abscess
that led to something else.
They go yeah, that's
actually right,
my mother had that
cardio problem
because of the endocarditis
because of her teeth.
So I can feel things like that.
And they usually
give me feedback
so I know I'm on
the right track.
>>NOORY: Are you like
a health psychic?
If you had to say how you
specialize, what would that be?
>>FREES: Mmm.
Well there are a few things
that I really think that I'm--
>>NOORY: Are you a medium, too?
>>FREES: Well yes, of course!
Yeah, I'm talking to
dead people, absolutely.
But I'm also seeing--
I see the trajectories
or I see the--
in the psychic realm, I
see probability factors,
which is about future stuff.
And I see-- people
from the industry,
the entertainment
industry come see me.
They're producers,
they're directors.
I can see aspects of things.
Actually, there was a show
that is just debuting this year
called "The Fix."
It's Marcia Clark's show,
the prosecutor during--
>>NOORY: From the
OJ Simpson trial.
>>FREES: Yes.
And I saw that show,
the inception of that
show three years ago.
I saw the trajectory of it--
I knew it would be produced,
I knew again on the air,
and I just had this feeling
about it the entire time.
So I kept saying to the
producers, look, I just see it.
Yeah, there's some problems
here, you need to fix this,
I can see that, but I
could feel that that
was going to go on
the air, and that's
some of the reasons
why people see me.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>FREES: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Did they believe you?
At the time?
>>FREES: Um--
>>NOORY: They do now.
[LAUGHTER]
>>FREES: Well, yeah.
"The Fix," the women that are--
the writers of "The
Fix" have a podcast
called "Happier in
Hollywood," and I'm considered
their resident psychic.
>>NOORY: Good for you.
>>FREES: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Marla, you
said earlier that there
was a role of science
with some of this.
Explain that a little bit more.
>>FREES: Well you
know what, George?
When this started happening
and I started getting help,
it was really the
remote viewers.
It was Lyn Buchanan who
helped me more than anything.
And that helped me make this
paranormal conversation normal.
And I have been looking
at science ever since,
starting with Lyn telling me
about the Monroe Institute.
>>NOORY: Great institute.
>>FREES: And that--
>>NOORY: --out-of-body
experiences.
>>FREES: Out-of-body
But the binaural beats
that were developed
by Tom Campbell and Dennis
Mennerich and Bob at the time
gave people access to altered
states of consciousness, which
is the largest educational
center in the entire world that
is doing this.
>>NOORY: Let's talk
a little bit more
about your Monroe Institute.
When I was younger,
I picked up a book
called "Journeys out of Body" by
Robert Monroe, who at any time
had an incredible ability
to go out of body.
>>FREES: Yeah.
>>NOORY: More so than anybody
that I had ever studied,
and I studied them all
even at that young age.
He was amazing with what he did.
He's not with us anymore,
but he had an institute.
Had you ever met him?
>>FREES: No, he died
before I got there.
>>NOORY: Ahh.
>>FREES: Yeah.
But of course, his essence
and his legacy lives on.
>>NOORY: The Institute's
still around.
>>FREES: Oh my goodness, yes.
I'm sending people
there all the time.
I really do believe it is
one of the greatest places
that people can feel
safe using binaural beats
and accessing altered
states of consciousness.
>>NOORY: Well we're bringing you
Robert Monroe to the program.
>>ROBERT MONROE: After we exit
this particular life soldier,
we are saying,
instead of going home
and what I call having
escape velocity to go home,
some things happened
in living that life.
We've picked up a load factor.
There was friction
along the way,
and that represented--
so instead
of moving out and
having escape velocity,
we start turning around that
and it's our decision, no
one else's, that's important.
Our decision.
We say, well, I think I'll
go back just once more,
and then this next
time I think I'll
be a male instead of a female,
that ought to be more fun.
Just once more-- and
then I'll go home.
So what happens is,
instead of moving this way,
we loop around and go
back being a human again,
and go back and have
another human experience,
another lifetime.
And we come out again,
and we're already
this time-- but this time we've
had even a greater load factor,
don't you see?
We've slowed up a little more.
We haven't got the
speed that we did.
We have a greater load.
And so we're now in orbit,
and we have a decaying orbit,
because when we come up
around the orbit like this,
instead of going
on, we say, oh, I'm
gotta go back because
I have never seen Paris
and I'd like to go to
Paris for once in my life,
and I'd like to just go there.
So whole purpose to
go back and live again
so that I can go to Paris.
And I've heard so much about
Paris, I want to go to Paris.
So I'll go and live again
so I can go to Paris.
And as you can
see, each time you
pick up in each succeeding
lifetime a greater load factor,
so that as you go through this,
your orbit decays more and more
as you go through this--
living these successive
layers until you
get locked in tighter and
tighter and tighter-- til
you are locked in
being human so tight,
that you forget
where you came from.
You've lost all of the desire
to even depart and go home.
You've lost it all.
Because-- and this is so
overwhelmingly addictive,
that you can't think of anything
else but this time, space,
physical matter, all the things
that take place in there,
and no matter how hard you try,
you can't get away from it.
The reason being there's no
law, but when you, quote, "die,"
and instead of going home,
you make the decision.
There is no law that says
you have to stay here.
You are the one who
says, I gotta go back.
>>NOORY: Monroe,
he died in 1995.
>>FREES: Yeah.
>>NOORY: This was the first time
I've ever seen him on video,
and that was an
old vintage clip.
>>FREES: Yeah.
>>NOORY: But he was
quite a guy, wasn't he?
>>FREES: Yeah, he is
really quite a guy.
And I love the fact that he
talks about it as a load.
And I think that that's
really interesting,
because we're here now.
We choose to come back,
we chose this life.
We're here, we're doing this.
We're bringing consciousness
to another group of people.
I think that there's a reason
that we're here, right?
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
Sometimes we haven't
figured it out yet,
but there's a reason we're here.
>>FREES: Well we're
moving beyond that,
and I think that the people
that are interested in Monroe
are interested in expanding
their awareness, right?
So the science part that
you're talking about,
there are people out there now--
CEOs, bank owners, executives,
physicists themselves,
scientists-- who are really
interested in connecting
to the information,
but they're scared.
They've had an attitude.
Maybe they've lived in
a materialistic world
for a long time where
they think that you die
and that's it and goodbye.
That this is the
ultimate reality.
But there's something
else about this,
which is what I've
been really looking at,
which is the idea that
this is a virtual reality,
that reality equals information.
And these people
who are left-brain
are being given opportunities.
They're scientists at
the Noetic Institute
that I've worked with.
>>NOORY: Edgar Mitchell's place.
>>FREES: Yes.
Well-- Yes.
And I was just with Dean
Radin this last fall,
and Julia Mossbridge.
Dean has been
turning materialism
on its heel for a long
time by doing experiments
on precognition, psychic
awareness, psychic functioning,
and telepathy.
And Julia Mossbridge, she
just came out with a book--
Dean's book was "Real
Magic" that just
came out this last year, and
Julia Mossbridge's book, which
is "The Premonition Code--"
>>NOORY: Well you know them all.
>>FREES: Well, these
are people that I find--
I'm interested in
for some reason.
>>NOORY: They're
giants in the field.
>>FREES: They are, they are.
And I've been working
with Tom Campbell.
And Tom Campbell is
really helping people,
because what he's doing
is he's offering people
away into this world.
Those people that are
skeptical of this,
he doesn't try and change you.
He basically is giving
us a way to grow up.
>>NOORY: Do you think
science is really
going to give us the
answer to what this is?
I mean, they can't tell
us about reincarnation.
They can't tell us
about life after death
as much as they try.
They can't tell us.
>>FREES: Well, I have a
feeling that they can.
>>NOORY: Or won't?
>>FREES: Well, there
is something about--
like Tom's work, is building
a foundation of science
so that the paranormal
can be spoken
about in scientific terms.
>>NOORY: Well in
the old days, if you
use the word "paranormal,"
you would chase them away.
>>FREES: Exactly.
They don't want to
pick up-- people
that are intellectuals
don't want to pick up
a book on that sort of thing.
They're also resistant
to the idea of any sort
of faith-based conversation.
But there were these languages.
George, I mean, you know about
all the ancient languages
and the ideas that came
through literature.
>>NOORY: Of course.
>>FREES: And also the psalms.
All of that, the experiences
that people had that
were touching the divine
and writing about it.
So this has been going
on for a long time.
>>NOORY: You have done a little
remote viewing in your day,
haven't you?
>>FREES: Yeah.
>>NOORY: What do
you think of that?
We've had guests on our program.
You talk about Lyn Buchanan.
>>FREES: Sure.
>>NOORY: We've had Ed Dames,
Russell Targ, Paul Smith--
some of the best
in remote viewing.
>>FREES: Yes.
>>NOORY: Ingo Swann in
his day when he was alive.
>>FREES: Oh yeah.
>>NOORY: What do you
think of remote viewing?
>>FREES: Well, I think it's
the best way for the science
community-- and also
laypeople, too, other civilians
like me that we're trained in
that format to see and explore
subconsciousness,
the unconscious
part of themselves that
literally is connected
to the information.
I think it's miraculous.
The CRV training.
There are various people--
as I mentioned, Dean Radin
and Julia Mossbridge,
there's also Gail Husick--
is basically a Harvard grad who
was trained by Lyn Buchanan.
And now she has this
whole group of CRVers
who are accessing information
for law enforcement--
>>NOORY: Well-educated people.
>>FREES: Absolutely.
Yeah.
And Linda Taggart.
My goodness, we can't
forget Linda Taggart.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>FREES: I've been involved
with the Power of Eight.
I've been talking to people
all over the world in a group
every Monday morning accessing
the information of what
people are intentioning
and holding
the intention for this group.
And we've been doing that--
I had people doing
that for me while I
was going around the country,
and it was incredibly helpful.
>>NOORY: And CRV, of course,
means Controlled Remote
Viewing.
>>FREES: Yes.
And then there's the ARV, which
Marty Rosenblatt is using--
>>NOORY: Which stands for?
>>FREES: The Associate
Remote Viewing.
>>NOORY: Or Advanced
>>FREES: You could
say that, too,
which is basically bringing
to the present the future.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>FREES: And that's
what we've been doing
when we are betting in Vegas.
You know, the APP, the
Applied Precognition Program,
Marty's been doing-- that's how
I met Dean and Julia, watching
them, listening
to them-- they're
incredible people to interview
and get their ideas about this.
But these are
science-based people.
>>NOORY: Have you
experimented in Vegas?
>>FREES: Yes!
>>NOORY: Does it work for you?
>>FREES: Yes, it does.
>>NOORY: I've had a guest
on "Coast to Coast,"
Joseph Gallenberger.
>>FREES: Of course, I love Joe.
>>NOORY: So he's written a
book called "Liquid Luck."
>>FREES: Yes.
>>NOORY: He has taken
students to Las Vegas
in two separate groups.
One group, they're
upbeat, they're psychic,
they're into this.
The other group-- and he
selects it on purpose--
they're unhappy.
They're just not into it.
Time and time again,
the happy group wins.
>>FREES: I love that.
>>NOORY: How does this happen?
>>FREES: Well, it's a desire.
It's a desire to be curious.
It's that whole-- it's the whole
thing about being skeptical.
If you're skeptical,
you are going
to find every conceivable
piece of evidence
to support your idea.
>>NOORY: Also, I did
my old experiment.
After I interviewed
Gallenberger, read his book,
I went, I'm going to go
to Vegas and test this.
>>FREES: Mm-hmm.
>>NOORY: Because this
is too unbelievable.
I mean, he would
talk about sitting
at a slot machine thinking
positive thoughts,
and he'd get a royal flush
or something like that
and go crazy.
So I went and I experimented
on two separate days.
Day number one, bad attitude.
Just don't get into things.
Try to make yourself unhappy.
That's not fun, by the
way, and it's not easy.
>>FREES:
>>NOORY: [LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: And I lost.
>>FREES: Oh.
>>NOORY: The next day,
I changed everything.
My attitude, the works.
>>FREES: Its intention.
It's very curious.
I think that this larger
consciousness system really
responds to a loving,
heart-centered intention.
>>NOORY: It works.
>>FREES: It did, and it does.
That's fabulous, I love that.
>>NOORY: If you go into
it negatively, down,
even though you're
human, and you're
going to have your
ups and downs,
but if you go into things that
way, it's not going to happen.
But if you change
your attitude--
>>FREES: Yeah.
>>NOORY: --it's dramatic.
I've seen it happen now
time and time again.
>>FREES: I think that's
why I do the work I do.
Because I'm happy and I have
intention to help others.
>>NOORY: Now you
mentioned Tom Campbell.
>>FREES: Yes.
>>NOORY: Tell us about him.
>>FREES: Wow.
Well, I started seeing
him in this very odd way.
I heard about him and I went
to one of those conferences,
and my head started
hurting because I'm just
not science-minded in that
way, but it was curious.
And I was very interested.
"My Big Toe," his
book, that dynamic--
is not "my" meaning
his, it's everyone's.
And he's all about
helping people grow up--
not making them do
it, but including them
in this incredible book
which blends physics
with metaphysics.
So then I started exploring more
of this virtual reality idea,
and--
>>NOORY: And he's a physicist.
>>FREES: Yes, he's a physicist,
but he's also the consciousness
expert.
He basically did
his thesis work,
and then he went off and
started working with Bob Monroe.
So he became a consciousness
explorer at the same time
that he was starting
to be a NASA physicist.
So he's basically been offering
left-brained people this
wonderful opportunity--
and I just came back
from England two weeks
of his immersives,
which are basically
these very structured days of
going into his binaural beats
that he developed
with Dennis Mennerich,
the same guy that was developing
the Hemi-Sync program back
with Bob Monroe.
They developed these
Hemi-Sync program--
excuse me, his
own binaural beats
that basically give
people an opportunity
in a very controlled environment
with these immersives
to access altered
states of consciousness.
These are left-brained people.
He's giving them an inroad.
So think of what
this can do, George.
Think of what it can do to all
the people that run our world.
The people with all
the money, the people
that are executives, the
people that own businesses.
If they can have their own
personal experience doing
things like I do,
accessing deceased
loved ones, having
past life regressions,
going into future
probable databases
and pulling information out--
>>NOORY: Winning in Vegas.
>>FREES: Winning in Vegas.
Well, maybe.
>>NOORY: Bi-attitude
>>FREES: Bi-attitude?
>>NOORY: Don't say maybe.
You say maybe, it's
not going to happen.
>>FREES: [LAUGHS] Well,
you're right about that.
But the dynamic is, it's
accessing information.
People were going in there and--
it's one thing-- it's one thing
to have my own experiences,
which I did.
I mean, I accessed
grandparents that I never met.
That was deeply emotional,
because my question
to the larger
consciousness system
was, could you please
show me something
that would be helpful for
me in this physical realm
and someone that is not
in the physical realm
and see if there could be
some sort of communication.
Well, I saw grandparents
that I'd never met before,
that were dead many years
before I'd even been born.
But it was great to
have my own experiences,
but to see these
science-based people,
these bank owners stand
up and say, oh my God,
I just came in contact with
someone that had died years ago
that I had no idea that they
were even able to communicate,
and that's what happened.
>>NOORY: Tom
Campbell, of course,
talked a little bit about
what happens when we die
in the documentary "The Path."
>>THOMAS CAMPBELL: So you have
these different reality frames.
When you die, you go into
a reality frame that's
not the same as the
dreaming, it's not the same
as really the out-of-body.
You go into this reality
frame that was made especially
for people who are just
transitioning from this reality
frame to another, because these
people have special needs.
They're very confused.
They don't know what's going
on, because when you're here,
you're just here.
Physical, that's it.
You're not aware of this
other dimension to your being.
So you die and suddenly you're
someplace else, you know?
It's like going to
sleep in your bed
and waking up in a foreign
country, in a strange house.
It's that kind of a
thing, so you're tend
to be a little stressed and
a little confused as to,
where am I, what's
going on, what do I do?
So they have this reality frame
that caters to that transition.
And in that reality frame,
you may be met by loved ones,
you may have all
the things going on,
but again, that's all virtual.
It seems real enough,
but it's all virtual.
You get taken to almost
like group sessions where
things are explained to you.
And they're not explained to you
because in a way that tells you
consciousness is
digital and it's--
it is-- they're not explaining
to you that sort of thing.
They're trying to
tell you something
that makes you feel better.
That lets you relax, that
lets you get the idea
that now you're aware in this
different reality system.
That's the idea.
And they use any trick that
they can to get you to do that.
So if you have a very strong
belief system this way,
that belief system will become
a hook by which they will
manipulate you to get you to
relax and let go and go on,
you know?
So if you really want to see
Uncle Fred or your child that
died or things like that,
well that'll happen, too.
But that's all virtual.
It's not really what
you think it is.
It's just part of
a reality frame
that helps you make this
transition to a bigger picture.
Once you've made that
frame to a bigger picture
and you kind of have the
idea, the next thing you do
is say, well what's next?
Where do we go from here?
>>NOORY: He's pretty
compelling, isn't he, Marla?
>>FREES: Yeah, he is, and
the dynamic of understanding
that it's databases,
it sort of takes
all of the woo-woo out of it.
But in my experience
doing this work,
it is so benevolent
and so incredible--
he talks about Uncle Fred,
that it's not just Uncle Fred,
but this larger consciousness
system in the reality
frame of Uncle Fred gives
emotion, feeling, data
of past experiences in the
present moment and even
future information
which makes us
connect to the
love, which is all
about lowering the entropy--
the chaos that we're
experiencing into something
this fundamental that we can
understand, which is love.
>>NOORY: Now you mentioned
you went to Europe.
>>FREES: Yes.
>>NOORY: Was there a
program you were in?
>>FREES: Yes, it was
the immersive, the--
yes.
It's Tom Campbell's immersives.
And we were at the Lumley
Castle outside of Durham,
and this castle was incredible.
And we were there--
there were two different groups
that we did, almost 100 people
in each group.
And we had ongoing sessions
where we would come and talk
to Tom, we would go and do
a binaural beat example.
And some of those binaural beats
that he and Dennis developed
gave my corpus callosum
some interesting experiences
that I had never had before.
My remote viewing
skills kicked in,
and I started asking,
OK, so I'm seeing
my target from this position.
Flip it, and I drew it that way.
Show me this, give
me the colors.
Detail after detail, some
of the best remote viewing
I've ever done.
But the thing that was
really exciting for me
is the healing aspects, George.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>FREES: Yeah.
The health of intentioning
with this larger consciousness
system--
>>NOORY: --heal other people?
>>FREES: That's all we did.
We-- I mean--
>>NOORY: Were they sick?
>>FREES: Well, they
all had maladies.
So we didn't-- all we got
was the first name and a last
initial.
And we had these forms
that we would draw--
I drew like gingerbread men--
and do the diagnosis,
and that's easy for me.
Psychically I can often see
things in people's bodies,
but it was really
the healing aspect.
All of us together, we were on
different parts of the castle,
but all of us focused
in on removing
the dark spots or the
things that we saw in that--
>>NOORY: Did you have to
see the person physically?
>>FREES: No, not at all.
Actually, we just used the
model of-- it was of a form--
or I drew gingerbread
men so that I could just
get what it was
without spending time,
detail the head and
neck, et cetera.
I just was led to information.
But it was really the healing
aspect that was most important.
So here we've got these--
>>NOORY: That's exciting.
>>FREES: Think
about this, George.
We've got scientists,
physicists, bank owners, CEOs,
people of high intelligence
that are running things
all around the world coming
in and doing this work.
>>NOORY: They were
in this program?
>>FREES: Yes they were.
>>NOORY: And when the program
was done, how did they feel?
>>FREES: Well, dramatic.
Dramatic experiences
happened when
they were able to access a past
life and see different things.
I mean, there was an opportunity
for me where I saw an Algonquin
Indian and I was told, this is
a man who shot you in the back
with an arrow.
And I went through that
whole process as a young boy.
>>NOORY: My gosh.
>>FREES: And I had--
>>NOORY: --past
life if no doubt.
>>FREES: Had a lingering
problem with my back.
But my information that
day was, I asked for it.
I said, I want to know something
that's stuck in my body
from a previous lifetime.
And we were all doing
the same exercises.
So there were
business executives
that were accessing various
levels of consciousness.
So they've shifted.
And it takes a
while to integrate.
This immersive experience
is really intense,
but it's making a difference.
>>NOORY: What is Tom
Campbell's initial thrust here?
What does he want everybody
to come away with?
>>FREES: Well, I think he
wants to help everybody
to grow up on some level.
To stop having the
ego-intensive materialistic idea
of something, and
to basically see
that there is a way in to the
consciousness of something
bigger.
There is something bigger.
It's not about owning God.
It's not about it's just the
Presbyterians or the Baptists.
It literally is information
accessible to all
of us that is benevolent
and helps us on our journey.
It makes us feel connected.
And most of us understand
that it's not just you die
and that's it.
We know that there's a
larger consciousness system.
I got immersed in it by
the trauma of my childhood
and praying and asking for help.
I was getting it.
>>NOORY: So if on
your epitaph one day,
if someone were to read it,
what would you like it to say?
Here lies Marla Frees.
>>FREES: Well, I don't think
I'm going to be lying there.
I think I'm going to choose
a different method of that.
But I think the dynamic is,
she came here to assist others.
And she did.
>>NOORY: And made the
world a difference.
>>FREES: I think so.
You know, some of the
things that I'm doing now,
I'm looking at I never
in my wildest imagination
thought I would be doing.
I never thought I'd be sitting
with a bunch of scientists
from all over the
world looking at this
and listening to
them as they tell me
their intense experiences
from accessing
altered states of consciousness.
>>NOORY: Did they
become believers?
These scientists who probably
were skeptics in the beginning?
>>FREES: Well I think that they
were skeptics in the beginning,
but after 400 and some hours
on YouTube of Tom's videos
and following the
virtual reality model,
they started to
think about this.
Because it's not just
Tom that is talking
about this virtual reality,
it is other scientists
who are bringing this
to the forefront.
>>NOORY: I was going to say, we
need a hundred Tom Campbells.
>>FREES: Well, we do, and I
think that that's what Tom--
that's exactly what Tom's
leaving as a legacy.
He continues to do this
all over the world.
>>NOORY: Marla, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>FREES: Thank you, George.
>>NOORY: Isn't it amazing
when you can combine science
and the psychic realm together?
It really does work.
I'm George Noory, thanks for
watching "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]